# 4. Storage

## 4.1. Home Area

Home area is the disk area shared by each interactive and compute node, which is available to all ABCI users by default. The disk quota is limited to 200GB.

## 4.2. Group Area

Group area is the disk area shared by each interactive and compute node.
To use Group area, "Usage Manager" of the group needs to apply "Add group disk" via [ABCI User Portal](https://portal.abci.ai/user/). Regarding how to add group disk, please refer to [Disk Addition Request](https://portal.abci.ai/docs/portal/en/03/#352-disk-addition-request) in [ABCI Portal Guide](https://portal.abci.ai/docs/portal/en/).

## 4.3. Local Storage

In ABCI System, 1.6 TB NVMe storage is installed into each compute node. There are two ways to utilize this storage as follows:

* Using as a local storage of each compute node (*Using as a local storage*).
* Using as a distributed shared file system, which consists of multiple NVMe storages in multiple compute nodes (*Using as a BeeOND storage*).

### 4.3.1. Using as a local storage

The NVMe storage can be used as a local storage for each compute node.
In this case, user can access to local storage by using environment variables `SGE_LOCALDIR`.
When using this method, you need not to specify any additional options.

Note that the amount of the local storage you can use is determined by "Resource type". For more detail on "Resource type", please refer to [Job Executing Resource](03.md#32-job-executing-resource).

### 4.3.2. Using as a BeeOND storage

The set of NVMe storages of job assigned compute nodes can be used as a
distributed shared file system (BeeGFS) on demand.
When using on demand BeeGFS (BeeOND), you need to submit job with `-l USE_BEEOND` option.
And you need to specify `-l rt_F` option in this case, because node must be exclusively allocated to job.

The created distributed shared file system area can be accessed from /beeond.

Example) sample of job script(use_beeond.sh)

```bash
#!/bin/bash

#$-l rt_F=2
#$-l USE_BEEOND
#$-cwd

echo test1 > /beeond/foo.txt
echo test2 > /beeond/bar.txt
cp -rp /beeond/foo.txt $HOME/test/foo.txt
```

Example) Submitting a job

```
[username@es1 ~]$ qsub -g grpname use_beeond.sh
```

Example) Status after execution of use_beeond.sh

```
[username@es1 ~]$ ls $HOME/test/
foo.txt    <- The file remain only when it is copied explicitly in script.
```

!!! warning
    The file stored under `/beeond` directory is removed when job finished. The required files need to be moved to Home area or Group area in job script using `cp` command.

## 4.4. Object Storage 

!!! warning "Caution"
    object storage service is currently unavailable.

The S3 compatible object storage area is available in ABCI System.
When you access to object storage area, you need access key and secret key.
